# Current Event 7

Topic of Article: Technology, Banking and Finances

Title of Article: Was This a Bailout? Skeptics Descend on Silicon Valley Bank Response.

[Was This a Bailout? Skeptics Descend on Silicon Valley Bank Response.](https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/13/business/economy/svb-bailout-questions.html)

## Who

The article is about the collapse of the Silicon Valley Bank

## What

1. The Federal Reserve, Treasury, and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation have announced a plan to ensure that all depositors in Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank are repaid in full and to offer loans to banks against their assets.
2. The bailout is aimed to prevent other banks from running as it provides a sense of safety for those who have money in the bank
3. The government's response has prompted questions about whether it constitutes a bailout and whether it will encourage future risk-taking in the financial system.
4. Some experts argue that the plan is more about preventing a broad and destabilizing bank run than saving any one business or group of depositors.

## When

The Silicon Valley Bank collapsed on the 10th of March

## Where

The collapse of the Silicon Valley bank had an international impact, but US deposits are the main focus.

## Why

This story is important as it highlights recent failures in the financial system and the government's response to prevent a bank run and stabilize the economy. The article also raises questions about the effectiveness of current regulations and the potential for future risk-taking in the financial system.

## Connect

We just learned about Bank runs, plus as the Silicon Valley Bank powers many tech startups, there was news that this may set startups behind by a generation.

## Question

Should the U.S government bailed out the Silicon Valley Bank, and how do we effectively protect against it?