# Open House History Project: The Lighthouse of Alexandria

The Lighthouse of Alexandria, a masterpiece of architecture that we seem to have no pictographic evidence of its beauty. The lighthouse of Alexandria was a Greek lighthouse made to provide safety and direction to nearing sailors through the use of sunlight and flame. The construction was completed around the time 280 B.C off the coast of both the Mediterranean and Red seas. To this day it still remains a  modern mystery of what ancient construction’s appearance was. 

The Lighthouse of Alexandria was built by Sostratus of Cnidus and was a part of Greek culture, symbolizing the ability to guide and protect sailors. The lighthouse was dedicated to Zeus and provided a permanent reminder of his power and greatness. The lighthouse was built to guide ships safely into the harbor. During the day, a mirror at the top would reflect sunlight towards the sea, and during the night, a fire would be lit.

The lighthouse was built in Pharos, a small island located on the western edge of the Nile Delta, in the year of 280 B.C. Geography played a significant role as a lighthouse had to be near the water to guide ships into the harbor. Alexandria itself would benefit from improved connection between the Mediterranean and Red Sea, as well as the trade of Egyptian cotton. As for special features, the lighthouse was roughly 350 feet (110 meters) above the sea, quite an achievement during it's time. The quality of its architectural design was extremely high compared to similar architectural feats during its era, and is one of the longest standing Wonders. Ever since it was built, the lighthouse has remained the archetype of all lighthouses.

The Lighthouse of Alexandria was built with the intention of protecting and guiding sailors. The purpose of the lighthouse was to make it easier for ships to navigate their way into the harbor, mainly at night. The lighthouse was also used to set fire to enemy ships; the mirror and light had the capability to create such a thing. Along with these statements, there were other rumors claiming that at the top of the lighthouse, there was a statue in honor of Poseidon. Others claimed that it was a statue of Alexander the Great or Ptolemy I. It was said that the statue would make those entering by sea aware of who was in control of the territory, but these rumors were never confirmed.

The Lighthouse of Alexandria was a beautiful building and had such an spectacular architectural design, making it one of the longest standing seven wonders of the ancient world. Though no one knew its actual appearance, the descriptions of the building displayed its brilliance. Being the first lighthouse in the world, its grand design made it even more majestic for it's time period. Even to this day, it still remains a mystery of what the lighthouse actually looked like or if it even existed.

