# 11.5: American Influence Grows

## America on the World Stage

1. Summarize: Explain the connection between Manifest Destiny and Christianity
   Because Manifest Destiney was the idea that God granted Americans the right to settle the frontier. This ties into Christianity as it motivated people’s desire to spread their faith, which led to the connection between missionary work and U.S expansionism.
2. Identify Cause and Effect: How did European imperialism affect the foreign policy of the United States?
   European imperialism rose fear that if the Americans remained isolated, America wouldn’t survive while European nations took over the world. Once America had fully expanded across North America, people urged overseas expansion to keep the “safety valve open” and avoid internal conflict
3. Paraphrase: What did historian Frederick Jackson Turner mean when he argued for a “safety valve”?
   The safety valve that Frederick Jackson Turner refers to is the ability to pack your things and have a fresh start in a new environment. This way, if you aren’t comfortable within your current environment, you always will have the ability to find a new place where you fit in.

## America Begins to Expand

1. Summarize: Why did the Japanese close off their ports to the rest of the world prior to Perry’s voyage? Why did they agree to trade with the United States?
   Japan closed off its port to the rest of the world prior to Perry’s voyage in the fear of the west. They agreed to trade with the Americans by giving him lavish gifts.
2. Categorize: Use the graphic organizer below to take notes on the advantages and disadvantages of William Seward’s purchase of Alaska

    | Advantages                                                                                                                                                                       | Disadvantages                                                                                 |
    |----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
    | Doubled the countries size<br/>Was rich in timber, oil, and other natural resources<br/>Expanded America’s reach across the pacific<br/>Key milestone on America’s road to power | Cost 7.2 million<br/>Named “Seward’s Folly” and “Seward’s Icebox”<br/>Geographical challenges |

3. Draw Conclusions: During the 1860s, the United States occupied the Midway Islands and acquired Alaska. Why did America expand into these new territories? How were the reasons for acquiring both territories similar?
   America was focused on expanding trade and acquiring new territories to become a stronger world power. The purchase of the Midway Islands increased trade with the Hawaiian islands.

## The Acquisition of Hawaii

1. Analyze Sequence: What were the most important events in the process of the annexation of Hawaii by the United States?
   President Harrison signed the treaty of annexation but couldn’t get Senate approval before Cleveland became president, where he ordered a full investigation. Turns out that most of the Hawaiian people didn’t approve, and Cleveland refused to sign it. American annexation remained strong, and in 1898, McKinley’s administration proclaimed Hawaii an official U.S territory.
2. Explain an Argument: Why did the planters want a new Hawaiian constitution? Why did Queen Liliuokalani oppose the new constitution? Hawaiian planters were sick of having the voting rights to the white planters. Queen Liliuokalani resented the increasing power of white planters, and abolished the constitution in response.