# 7.4 African Americans and the War

1. Draw Inferences: Why did Lincoln initially hesitate to emancipate enslaved African Americans?
Lincoln initially hesitated to emancipate the African Americans because the Union just encountered a failure at the Second Battle of Bull Run, and as a result by announcing the proclamation may look like an act of desperation
2. Identify Cause and Effect: What pressures, both inside and outside the Unite States, motivated Lincolns to issue the Emancipation Proclamation?
On the battlefield, Union officers were in a dilemma on what to do with enslaved African Americans, which pressured Lincoln to issue the proclamation. Additionally, with the victory with the Battle of Antietam was the victory that Lincoln needed to move forward with the emancipation
3. Compare and Contrast: Why did Lincoln choose to announce the Emancipation Proclamation after the Battle of Antietam?
He chose to do so in order to make it look like the emancipation wasn’t simply an act of desperation. It can be argued that with the victory, Lincoln was more authoritative and would thus make the emancipation stronger.
4. Draw Inferences: The Emancipation Proclamation did not actually free a single enslaved person. Why did Lincoln choose to approach the issue in this way?
Lincoln probably chose to go along this route as it allowed and gave the option for the southern states to surrender.
5. Analyze Interactions Among Individuals, Ideas, and Events: How did the Emancipation Proclamation change the purpose of the Civil War for the North and South?
For the North, it redefined the war as being about slavery, but for southerners it ended any desire to negotiate about the ending of the war. 
6. Draw Inferences: How did the Union army show a conflicted attitude towards African African soldiers?
African American soldiers still faced prejudice, with examples such as them being assigned menial tasks.
7. Identify Supporting Details: Find details or examples that support this statement: African Americans in the South often found ways to passively or actively help the Union forces.
Union forces often enlisted African Americans to help produce food for the troops. They were also organized into their own military units as they were familiar with the nearby terrain.