# Of Mice of Men/Outsiders Synthesis Theme Essay

As Samuel Johnson once said, "Prejudice, not being founded on reason, cannot be removed by argument." In Myres video about biases, Myres states that biases always will exist. Her message was not about not having any biases, but about how people should overcome the bias. In the same way, in The Outsiders by S.E Hinton, Ponyboy realizes that the Socs were not as bad as he actually thought; he overcomes his negative bias towards them. From the beginning Ponyboy's image of the Socs was originally negative, but after talking to Cherry, his mindset about the Socs changes. In Of Mice of Men and The Outsiders, John Steinback and S.E Hilton address how prejudice and discrimination may prevent or encourage a person from doing actions.

In The Outsiders, even though the Greasers and Socs both hate each other, Ponyboy is able to let go of his negative bias towards the Socs. Originally, Ponyboy detested the Socs, he thought of them as "privileged and the well-dressed. I [Socs] throw beer blasts, drive fancy cars, break windows at fancy parties." …  "I jump greasers!" Two-Bit screamed" (Page 116). But towards the end of the story, Randy visits Ponyboy and they seem to be on good terms, ""Sure," Randy said. He was still looking at me kind of funny. "See you around, Pony."" (Page 141). In the beginning, Ponyboy could not overcome the prejudice towards the Socs, he learned to overcome it towards the end of the story. After overcoming his feelings of prejudice, he is now more encouraged to talk to the Socs. Even in the current time, prejudice is still here, by overcoming it people can mend relationships and lead a happier life. S.E Hilton clearly shows how prejudice and discrimination demotivates Ponyboy from talking with the Socs.

In the same way Ponyboy's prejudice demotivates him, Crooks is also extremely unmotivated after Curley's wife reminds him that Crook is black. Lennie explains his dream with George to Crooks, and Crooks is happy to join them, ". . . . If you . . . . guys would want a hand to work for nothing—just his keep, why I’d come an’ lend a hand." (Page 74) But when Curley's wife comes in she reminds him by saying "“Well, you keep your place then, Nigger. I could get you strung upon a tree so easy it ain’t even funny.” Crooks had reduced himself to nothing." (Page 78) After experiencing the discrimination and prejudice, Crooks is not motivated to go to the farm anymore. Because of racial prejudice and discrimination, Crooks is demotivated to a point where he does not think his life has a point anymore. Even now some people do not realize how detrimental words can be, these words demotivate people. John Steinbeck shows that discrimination demotivates people, it brings people down.

Furthermore, Curley's wife also experiences prejudice and discrimination, she is discriminated because she is a woman. Even after marrying Curley, we know she is still a very lonely person "“Well—she got the eye.” 30 “Yeah? Married two weeks and got the eye? Maybe that’s why Curley’s pants is full of ants.”" (Page 29-30) Towards the end of the book, before her death, she says "“I get lonely,” she said. “You can talk to people, but I can’t talk to nobody but Curley. Else he gets mad. How’d you like not to talk to anybody?”" (Page 83) She has been extremely lonely because she expeiriences gender discrimination and prejudice. Instead of being demotivated, she is actually encouraged to talk to Lennie. Curley's wife did not have any harmful intent while talking to Lennie, she just wanted to talk. Discrimination can encourage people to speak up, as if today there is a movement called "Black lives matter". John Steinbeck shows that discrimination and prejudice can encourage people to take action, in this case Curley's wife is encouraged to talk to Lennie.

Both John Steinbeck and S.E Hilton show the effects of prejudice and discrimination; it may either demotivate people or it may encourage them. In The Outsiders, discrimination and prejudice demotivates Ponyboy from talking with the Socs, but when Ponyboy overcomes it, he is encouraged to talk to the Socs. S.E Hilton clearly shows how prejudice and discrimination can demotivate, Crooks is immediately demotivated after he is reminded of all the discrimination toward him. Finally, Curley's wife is also discriminated against, but this encourages her to reach out and talk to Lennie. Discrimination and prejudice will always exist, it is people responses and interpretations of it that will matter the most.

