# What if Jesus Was Serious Pt 1: 9 &Pt 2: 1

## Prompt

1. How has hypocrisy been a detriment to Christians/the Church? And how has hypocrisy been a detriment in your own life?
2. What do you see as the cost of peace? Be specific and detailed in your response.
3. What do you believe persecution looks like in the life of a Christian teenager/high schooler? Where have you seen Christians’ loss of privilege be confused with persecution? COVID-19 restrictions on Churches? Masks? Other areas, etc.?
4. Keeping in mind what John and Peter both write, how should we feel about the perception the world has of Christians?  

## Response

1. Hypocrisy can be interpreted as a detriment to Christians and the Church as they all preach to be perfect, but they themselves are not perfect. It general too, hypocrisy can make the church less credible. I think hypocrisy has been a detriment in my life when it comes to my relationships with others. I would expect my friends to sometimes do things for me which I wouldn't do for them.
2. The cost of peace is quite high, and I think it can compare with the cost of freedom. Peace will require sacrifice (just like freedom), especially aspects that may be personal to you - sometimes to the point where if you try to be peaceful with everyone, then you as a person can become to exhausted. 
3. Persecution as a Christian teenager may be in forms of isolation or bullying. Teenagers tend to be pretty judgemental and self-conscience about themselves, so their beliefs may be a target for others to make fun of. Regarding COVID-19, I wouldn't think that's persecution, as these mandates where placed on every public place, not just churches. So, I would label it more as a inconvenience rather than persecution.
4. In the Christian tradition, followers are often advised not to be overly concerned with societal perceptions, as living a faith-based life may not always align with mainstream culture. However, they are also encouraged to live virtuously and ethically, which can positively influence how they are perceived. The focus is more on living in accordance with one's beliefs than on worrying about external judgments.
