# Book 1 Unit 2

## Biome
A region of Earth where the climate determines the types of plants that live there 

- Abiotic Factors
    - Climate: Describes the long-term patterns of temperature and precipitation in a region
- Other Factors
    - Soil type
    - Amount of sunlight
    - Amount of water
- Ecosystem Relation to Biome
    - Ecosystem ➡ Biome
- Major Land Biomes
    - Tundra
        - Low average temperatures
        - Little Precipitation
        - Contains permafrost
        - Animals
            - Caribou, Ground Squirrels, and Oxen
    - Taiga
        - Low average temperatures
        - More Precipitation
        - Poor Soil
        - Animals
            - Wolves, Owls, Elk, and Hares
    - Desert
        - High Temperatures
        - Extremely Little Precipitation
        - Sandy & Rocky Soil
        - Animals
            - Cactus
    - Tropical Grassland
        - High Temperatures
        - Wet & Dry Seasons
        - Thin soils
        - Animals
            - Antelope, zebras, and lions
    - Temperate Grassland
        - Hot Summers, Cold Winters
        - High Precipitation
        - Periodic Fires
        - Rich Soils
        - Animals
            - Bison, antelope, prairie dogs, and coyotes
    - Temperate Deciduous Forest
        - Hot Summers, Cold Winters
        - Moderate Precipitation
        - Rich Soil
        - Animals
            - Deer and Bobcats
    - Temperate Rainforest
        - Long, Wet and Cool Seasons, Dry Summer
        - Moderate Precipitation
        - Rich Soils
        - Animals
            - Spotted Owls, Shrews, Elk, and Cougars
    - Tropical Rainforest
        - Warm temperatures
        - More rain than any other biome
        - Acidic and Poor Soils
        - Animals
            - Birds, monkeys, sloths, Leaf-cutter ants, jaguars, snakes, and anteaters

## Aquatic Ecosystems
- Freshwater Ecosystems
    - Lakes & Ponds: Bodies of water surrounded by land
    - Wetlands: An area of land that is saturated, or soaked with water
    - Rivers & Streams
- Estuaries: A partially enclosed body of water formed where a river flows into an ocean
- Marine Ecosystems
    - Coastal Oceans
        - Intertidal Zone: The land between high and low tides
        - Neritic Zone: The underwater zone from the shore to the edge of the continental shelf.
    - Open Oceans: All surface water down to a depth if about 6,562 ft.
    - Deep Oceans: Includes Abyssal Zone (lower than 6,562 ft.)

## Energy and Matter in Ecosystems
- Matter: Anything that has mass and takes up space
- Energy: The ability to do work and enable organisms to use matter in life processes
- Laws of conservation
    - Law of Conservation of Energy: Energy can't be created or destroyed
    - Law of Conservation of Mass: Mass can't be created or destroyed
- Energy flow in a Ecosystem
    - Energy Pyramid: A toll that can be used to trace the flow of energy through an ecosystem
    - Producers ➡ Primary Consumers ➡ Secondary Consumers ➡ Tertiary Consumers
    - As the pyramid goes up, there are fewer organisms in the stage
    - Highest level has smallest population
- Cycles
    - Water Cycle
        - Evaporation/Transpiration/Respiration ➡ Water vapor in air ➡ Condensation ➡ Precipitation ➡ Runoff/Groundwater 🔄
- Nitrogen Cycle
    - Nitrogen in air ➡ Nitrogen fixed by lightning ➡ Nitrogen fixed by bacteria Nitrogen taken by plants    ↘    ➡ ➡ ➡ ➡ ➡ ➡ ➡  Decay and waste ➡ Plants eaten by animals ↗ Usable Nitrogen in soil ➡  Bacteria converts nitrogen back to gas 🔄
- Carbon Cycle
    - Photosynthesis ➡ Respiration 🔄
    - Carbon in fossil fuels ➡ Combustion ➡ Photosynthesis ➡ Respiration 🔄

## Changes in ecosystems
- Eutrophication: The process in which organic matter and nutrients slowly build on a body of water
- Natural Disturbances
    - Ecosystems can change due to a catastrophic natural disturbance
    - Examples
        - Hurricanes
        - Lightning
        - Volcano eruptions
- Ecological Succession
    - Succession: The slow development or replacement of an ecological community by another ecological community over time
    - Primary Succession
        - Bare Rock
            - A slowly retreating glacier exposes bare rock where nothing lives, and primary succession begins.
        - Lichen form soil
            - Acids from lichens break down the rock into particles. These particles mix with the remains of dead lichens to make soil.
        - Mosses & Insects move
            - After many years, there is enough to soil for mosses to grow. The mosses replace the lichens. Insects and other small organisms begin to live there, enriching the soil.
        - Big plants grow
            - As the soil deepens, mosses are replaced by ferns. The ferns may slowly be replaced by grasses and wildflowers. If there is enough soil, shrubs and small trees may grow.
    - Secondary Succession
        - After first year after a farmer stops growing cops or the first year after some other major disturbance, wild plants start to grow. In farmland, crabgrass often grows first.
        - Bt the second year, new wild plants appear. Their seeds may have been blown into the field by wind, or they may have been carried by insects or birds. Horseweed is a common during the second year.
        - In 5 to 10 years, small conifer trees may start growing among the weeds. The trees continue to grow, and after about 100 years, a forest may form.
- Signs of mature ecosystem
    - Climax Species
        - Ecosystems dominated by a climax species is stable until it is disturbed
    - Biodiversity
        - The number and variety of species that are present in an area is referred to biodiversity

## Human activity and ecosystems
- Negative effects for ecosystems
    - Pollution
        - Fossil Fuels
        - Releasing chemicals
        - Pesticides or fertilizers
        - Landfills
- Depleting Resources
    - Increase in human population increases need for resources
- Destroying Habitats
    - Urbanization: Human population growth in and around cities
    - Biodiversity is destroyed
- Overfishing
    - Fish species cannot reproduce as fast as they can eaten/fished
