#  Pt. 1: 5, 6

## Prompt

1. Meekness is not usually a trait that we desire to possess. How can this reading of Scripture help us reclaim the term and embrace it in our faith?
2. What do you see as the relationship between faith and politics? How has politics become an idol for many people (especially in the United States)?
3. What role do we have in seeking justice?
4. Read Ephesians 6.10-20. Reflect on the passage, considering how you have historically heard it taught/preached on Sunday, or what you believe it means, etc.? What do you see as the correlation between injustice (of all kinds in the world) and the “devil and spiritual forces”?

## Response

1. The concept of meekness is often misunderstood as weakness or timid, but in the context of faith, it can sometimes be empowering. Scripture shows that by being meek and putting trust in God rather than in worldly power, one can have a spiritual upper hand.
2. The relationship between faith and politics boils down to the difference between worshiping God and worshiping human institutions. Many in the U.S. become so engrossed in politics that it starts to govern their lives, overshadowing their faith. This is quite unhealthy, my view on faith in general is that it should guide our lives, not strictly our political ideologies.
3. Our pursuit of justice is aligned with our pursuit of truth. The book suggests that our natural inclination for justice is a divine gift, supplemented by God's mercy and forgiveness.
4. The passage appears to encourage believers to stand firm in their faith, armed with righteousness and truth. It seems to suggest that wherever injustice exists, evil spiritual forces are at play. God's serves as protection against these injustices.
