# 11.3 Worksheet

## Minorities Face Challenges in the Progressive Era

1. Determine Central Ideas: Throughout this lesson, what central idea is conveyed about Progressivism?
   It basically encouraged everyone to follow white, middle-class ways of life
2. Cite Evidence: The Progressives wanted to assimilate many immigrant groups. Give two examples of this from the text
   According to the book, in the late 1800s, southern Progressives used misguided theories to justify the passage of laws that kept African Americans from voting. They would also urged to end the violence and terrorism against the African Americans, but still wouldn’t advocate for equal rights - such as the Jim Crow laws.

## African Americans Promote Civil Rights

1. Evaluate Explanations: There was some tension between the approaches of Brooker T. Washington and W.E.B Du Bois in how to approach African American civil rights. What approach was more convincing, and why? Use details from the text to support your answer.
   I think W.E.B Bio’s view on Civil Rights was much more suitable. Economic independence should have no correlation with whatever civil rights that an individual has, and therefore, Bois’ view aligns more closely with mine.

2. Vocabulary: Use Context Clues - Describe the “peonage” mentioned in the NAACP’s goals. Why were African Americans forced into peonage?
   African Americans were forced into peonage as people who typically led this movement wanted to maintain the economic superiority over them.
3. Summarize: How did the NAACP advocate for the civil rights of African Americans? Give specific examples.
   Ida B. Wells used her publication (a Tennessee newspaper) to make clear the horrors of lynching, and this led to more coverage from the NAACP’s magazine, **********The Crisis**********, and the lawyer, teacher, and former diplomat James Weldon Johnson

## Protecting Rights for Ethnic and Religious Minorities

1. Identify Supporting Details: Many ethnic or religious minorities helped each other by creating services in their own communities. Give an example of how a minority built up a community through social services.
   The Jews in New York founded the Anti-Defamation League in 1913 to defend Jews and others against physical and verbal attacks, false statements, and “to secure justice and fair treatment to all citizens alike…”
2. Draw Conclusions: The text states the Dawes Act of 1887 and the American Indian Citizenship Act of 1924 was designed to help Americanize the American Indians. Explain the negative effects of these laws.
   The Dawes Act was intended to speed American Indian’s assimilation into white society, but this wasn't achieved. In response, the American Indian Citizenship Act of 1924 granted American Indians citizenship, which was an important step toward political equality with other Americans
3. Compare and Contrast: Compare the struggles the American Indians and the Asian Americans went through to gain voting rights and own land.
   American Indians gained citizenship in 1924 with the American Indian Citizenship Act, while Asian Americans were denied voting rights until 1952 and faced discrimination in housing. Both races had advancements in terms of equality, but not as close as the ones today.