# Exploring the Concept of Love - Synthesis Timed Write

What is love? Is love simply just desire, is it companionship, or is it just chemical process within our minds? The idea and concept of love has been around for hundreds of decades and has maintained its backbone and importance within society, but to this day, the precise definition still varies from person to person. In conclusion, love is a complex phenomenon that arises from a combination of biological and social factors, including hormones and neurons, cultural and social influences, and personal choice and commitment, which are all crucial to understanding and sustaining loving relationships that society has formed.

The biological breakdown on love indicates that love is simply more than a social construct, but a neurological activity that occurs within the brain. From a biological perspective, love all originates from the the brain. When the hypothalamus releases dopamine, our bodies release nerve growth factor (NGF), and hormones are regulated to different levels, such as an increase in oxytocin and decrease in serotonin. (Source D - Infographic) This leads to humans feeling like they are in the ‘midst’ of love, such as ecstasy and excitement, emotions of connection and commitment. In reality however, it’s just a balance of all of the chemicals within our body. Additionally, love has been described as an addiction, according to Helen Fisher:

> “Scientists have now shown that food, sex, and gambling compulsions employ many of the same brain pathways activated by substance abuse… love addiction is just as real as any other addiction, it terms of its behavior patterns and brain mechanisms. Moreover, it’s often a positive addiction.” - Source E
> 

If love has shown to make similar and proven biological processes as addictions, then love can definitely be ruled as a biological process in which humans carry out, in terms of the chemistry and how hormones are regulated.

According to Source H, a survey conducted by Pew Research found that political preferences, long-distance relationships, and debts are one of the most common deal breakers for people when it comes to love. These findings show that societal and economic factors play a major role in determining the success of a romantic relationship. In Source G, Atwood writes a poem showing the cultural and emotional aspects of love, how how it’s not made of simple ideas and pointless commodities. Rather, love is an concept that brings up complex emotions. It is through this perspective of love that shows how culture and society can have an influence on one’s romantical preferences. Sources H and G both show that love is not a simple emotion, but a social construct influences by many different factors.

Finally, love is a personal choice and commitment which people have to make. In Source C, de Botton emphasizes the importance of hard work and dedication in maintaining a romantic relationship. De Botton points out how society can present the unachievable ideals, such as the example of ancient Greek’s idea of love being centered around education. Rather, he suggests how love should be centered around “incredible sweetness, tenderness, and patience” as well as forgiveness. With all these qualities in which de Botton describes, it shows how love can be a difficult personal choice and commitment for many people.

In conclusion, love is simply more as one of the emotions that we are taught when we were young. From biological processes such as the effects of dopamine, serotonin, and oxytocin and the impact they have on our feelings, to the social constructs and influences that determine whether a relationship may thrive - love is more than just **********liking a person**********. Rather, love is a complex combination of biological processes, social constructs and influences, and personal choice and commitments.