# 11.6: The Spanish-American War

## Causes of the Spanish-American War

1. Draw Conclusions; Why did the United States have an interest in what happened in Cuba during the war for independence from Spain? Explain your answer from the text.
   The United States had an interest in what happened in Cube during the war for independence as it reminded the Americans of their own struggle for independence, according to the text.
2. Analyze Interactions Among People and Events: What effect did newspaper publishers such as Joseph Pulitzer and William Randolph Hearst have on the Spanish-American War?
   They heightened the public’s dislike of the Spanish government. Their publicans, known as the Yellow Press, pushed for war with Spain

## American Forces Defeat the Spanish

1. Analyze Sequence: Why was the United States able to defeat the Spanish in the Philippines so easily? What other events led to this victory?
   The U.S led a surprise attack on the Spanish fleet in Manilla Bay. Other events that led to this event would include when Pilipino nationalists fought back and defeated the Spanish army.
2. Cite Evidence: Secretary of State John Hay called the Spanish-American War a “splendid little war.” Based on the information presented in the text, do you agree? Explain your answer, citing evidence in the text to support your ideas
   I wouldn’t fully agree, as it wasn’t really a war, just a complete destruction of the Spanish. In order for something to be really classified as a “war”, there needs to be a decent amount of fighting and casualties on both sides.

## The War as a Turning Point

1. Draw Inferences: After the United States victory in the Spanish-American War, President McKinley said America had no choice but to “take them all, and to educate the Filipinos, and uplift and civilize… them.” What does this quote reveal about McKinley and his attitude toward the Filipinos?
   This quote revealed that McKinley was responsible to govern the Filipinos - for the reason that it was a valuable stepping stone to trade in China. If the US gave up the Philippines, other nations would gladly take their position
2. Explain an Argument: Explain why some Americans were opposed to taking control of the Philippines.
   They condemned it as a crime and attacked it as “open disloyalty to the distinctive principles of our government”

## Effects of U.S Expansionism in the Philippines

1. Draw Inferences: A newspaper article quoted in the text explains that the United States wanted the Philippines but not the Filipinos. Explain why.
   Again, the Philippines presented itself more as an economic stepping stone. This meant that much of the value that the Philippines had from the perspective of the US, lied in it’s strategic location as well as resources.
2. Draw Conclusions: Why did the Filipino leader Emilio Aguinaldo fight the United States against Spain? Why did he later fight against the United States?
   He thought that the US was an ally for the Filipino struggle for independence. However, because the US decided to maintain the possession of the Philippines, Aguinaldo organized an insurrection.