# Felons and the Right to Vote Timed Write

In America, people are convicted of felony charges on a daily basis. With a conviction of a felony, many of their protected rights in the Constitution are stripped away, such as the right to bear arms and the right to vote. The reason for this is clear: denying the right to vote to felons is a fool-proof method of keeping our countries voting system safe and fair from ex-offenders. Each state prohibits people from voting in order to keep the voting system safe and secure. However, possessing a firearm remains a breach of federal law. Logically speaking, removing the right to vote for felons is on the same ground as the idea of why the right to bear arms is revoked upon being convicted of a felony. The very reason being that an individual has a history of being non law-abiding provides enough ground to strip a constitutional right. Additionally, removing the prohibitions on felon voting would not be safe nor just. The felonies committed should hold weight - and by putting voting rights at stake it would naturally discourage felonies. Felonies - such as murder, sexual assault, and kidnapping - are by far the most serious category of crime that can be charged to an individual, but by allowing felons to vote, it portrays the crime as something not as serious. By denying the right to vote to ex-offenders, it retains and encourages the values of integrity and equality within society. However, the article ****************************Felons and the Right to Vote**************************** does present valid points, such as “the quality of voting roll purges must be improved”, as Florida has proved that its felon purge was inaccurate. Though the current system definitely has its issues, allowing felons to vote would be irrational and irresponsible as righteous citizens of America.